# Debating.io
Debate is an extremely important task which inheres in the human condition, by virtue of the duality of reality. Each and every little thing must be considered appropriately, compared and weighed with contradicting evidence, and eventually accepted or rejected. Life is defined by its finitude, and this discrimination is the only way by which we can acquire a tenable existence.
The better or the faster one becomes at this process, the more evidence one is able to weigh, and subsequently, the more one is able to learn and integrate. As this is an intuitively worthwhile goal to strive for, it seems self-evident that it is valuable to improve one's ability to evaluate information; and arguably the best method of doing this is through competitive debating.
Competitive debating involves a number of factors that make it particularly apt for this end. First, it is a social activity, meaning that the judging eyes of spectators, judges and competitors (as well as wider society within each and every single one of their perspectives). This ensures that your evaluation is grounded in a multiplicity of perspectives; minimizing the ability of individual error to wreak havoc. Second, it is a competitive venture, forcing all involved parties to make an effort to strive to attain utmost quality in their craft. Third and lastly, it imitates the structure of reality insofar as there are two approximately equivalent sides and one grander universal arbiter. In certain formats such as British Parliamentary, this is taken to a new extreme, with the doubling of the amount of teams increasing not only the competitiveness but also ensuring that all perspectives are raised and that no considerations are left out of the debate. The necessity of standing for sides one normally would not support raises your inner voice, making your own perspective clearer to you, and perhaps altering and integrating the perspectives you learn. For all of these reasons, competitive debating is exceptionally conducive to the development of a scrutinizing and sophisticated inner discerner, as opposed to more passive or isolated activities such as philosophizing or unstructured discourse.
Given the value of this activity, then, it is a shame to see it be so constrained by organizational demands. In order to engage in organized debate, one must often have approximately 7-9 people available at the same time in the same room with about two hours to spare. Reality itself is laid out such that there are a near infinite amount of ventures that can be undertaken by individuals, and most of the crucial ones often involve other people, set times, or general organizational wrenches in the machinery of attempting to set up debate meetings. In addition, debaters on the whole tend to be a rather disorganized bunch, meaning that they usually lack good time management, making it even more difficult to set up in-person debates.
To make matters worse, debating is not a skill that can as easily be replicated in other circumstances. For instance, it is nowhere near as giving to prep on your own and to record a short speech for you to subsequently evaluate. For instance, POIs and external judging are out the window. Moreover, your speech must be understood in the context of the debate as a whole; especially if you are any speaker other than PM (although this also applies to them, albeit to a lesser extent). It is also practically impossible to fool your body into thinking you are in the same competitive environment of when you are surrounded by interlocutors with the judging eyes of the adjudicator upon you as when you are standing alone in your bedroom in front of anything upon which you are able to balance your phone. Writing certainly doesn't have the same effect as speaking, which further entrenches the necessity of organized debate. Fundamentally, the things that make debating good *are* the things that necessitate organization and preparation.
How do we solve this, then? Well, we must address the underlying issues that make it tough for debaters.
